From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Baro. This is the Daily. [music]
[music]
To hear the CEO of Netflix tell [music]
it, his $83 billion offer to buy Warner
Brothers Studios will benefit everyone.
>> Uh, we think this deal with Warner
[music] Brothers is good for
shareholders. We think it's good for
consumers. We think it's good for
creators. We think it's great for
[music] the entertainment industry as a
whole.
>> To hear the CEO of Paramount tell it
that same offer is a monopolistic
disaster.
>> Allowing the number [music] one
streaming service to combine with the
number three streaming service is
anti-competitive. That's like saying
Coke can buy Pepsi. today. The
blockbuster deal that is rocking
Hollywood, the competing [music] hostile
takeover bid that it's inspired, and
what it all means for the future of TV
[music] and film, and for all of us, the
viewers. I spoke [music] with three of
my colleagues, Nicole Sperling, Kyle
Buchanan, and Lauren Hirs. [music]
>> [music]
>> It's Tuesday, [music] December 9th.
I want to welcome the three of you to
the first ever edition of the Roundt
Hollywood edition. Lauren Hirs,
>> hello.
>> Nice to have you in the studio. And
joining us from Los Angeles and its
environs, Nicole Sperling. Nice to have
you on.
>> Hello.
>> And Kyle Buchanan, thanks for making
time for us.
>> Hi, Michael.
>> So, we usually put together these panels
to make sense of major moments in
politics and government, but the world
of business gave us a story so big and
so high stakes and so theatrical that it
could not be contained, I believe, to a
single guest. And that story, of course,
is the emerging fight over who will
control Warner Brothers Studios. this
storied Hollywood institution, which is
why we've asked the three of you on. And
I just want to explain what each of you
bring to the conversation. Nicole, you
write about Netflix streaming and the
business of Hollywood. Am I capturing
you correctly?
>> Yes, that is correct.
>> Kyle, you cover the movies for the Times
and the actors and the directors
involved in making them. You brilliantly
profile them week in week out and you
cover the awards season. Does that do
you justice? That scratches the surface.
[laughter] Thank you.
>> And only the surface. And Lauren, you
write about corporate mergers and you've
been steeped in the details of this
particular deal.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. [snorts] So, just to give us a
little bit of a road map, we're going to
spend a lot of time in this conversation
talking through the implications of
Warner Brothers Discovery ending up in
the hands of either of its current major
suitors. But I think we have to start at
the boardroom level because that's
literally where it begins. There are a
lot of moguls and multi-billion dollar
media brands involved in this battle.
And so we're going to bring each of the
major players on stage one by one. Kyle,
give us the cliffnotes version of the
protagonist of this story, Warner
Brothers.
>> Yeah, Warner Brothers is one of
Hollywood's crown jewels. It's been
around over a hundred years. It was
founded in Hollywood's golden age. It's
made movies from Casablanca to Batman.
You know, I was on that back lot the
other day and you're walking past film
and TV history wherever you go.
>> It's run by a guy named David Zazloff
who came over when Warner Brothers
merged with Discovery and it's been a
little bit of a rocky road since that
merger.
>> Why?
>> Well, you know, Discovery has a lot of
uh flailing television channels at this
point, a lot of cable channels, which
includes CNN, that they're trying to get
rid of in some fashion. And so there's
been an expectation that Warner Brothers
Discovery would be up for sale or broken
up into parts.
>> And of course, one of those parts is
HBO, the gold standard of television.
>> Yes.
>> Lauren, I think this is where you come
into the conversation because the
realization that Warner Brothers
Discovery is going to be broken up,
potentially sold, brings in our second
protagonist in this story, which is
Paramount. Mhm.
>> So, just give us the quick backstory of
Paramount's place in this showdown.
>> Before Paramount Sky Dance, as it's now
known, there was Sky Dance, which was
run by David Ellison, the son of Oracle
founder Larry Ellison.
>> Really rich family.
>> Really rich family, which is important
to this story. Larry helped finance
David's acquisition of Paramount, which
just closed a couple months ago.
>> And we should just say that was a very
small brand, eating a very huge brand.
very huge brand. It has CBS. It has the
studio behind The Godfather, Mission
Impossible. It's a huge company. And all
of the sudden, David Ellison comes on
the scene as a media mogul. But what
also becomes very evident is he is a
small media mogul in comparison to David
Zazoff over at WBD, Ted Sarandos at
Netflix. What's really important right
now in media is streaming and Paramount
Plus, Paramount streaming business is a
drop in the bucket when compared to
those,
>> right? The undisputed leader of
streaming is Netflix with about 300
million. I think Paramount Plus is at
about 80 million subscribers. So, so
many fewer,
>> right? And so key to Ellison's strategy,
frankly, even before they closed his
purchase of Paramount was buying Warner
Brothers Discovery. So once Warner
Brothers Discovery made clear that it
might be considering some kind of option
like splitting its business in half,
David Ellison pounced and he has made a
number of bids trying to buy Warner
Brothers.
>> Great summary. And that of course brings
us to Nicole Netflix which clearly
understands that Warner Brothers is kind
of in trouble, maybe up for sale and
that Paramount has its eyes on it.
>> Yes. And it's the giant. It is the one
that has transformed the movie industry.
Netflix was the upstart. It was the
disruptor. And when they came in and
started streaming content, it has
prompted every other studio in town to
start their own streaming business to
take on their own loads of debt in order
to create this huge infrastructure. And
they have not been able to do it as well
as Netflix has done when it comes to
acquiring subscribers all over the
place. They also have the ethos of they
have to constantly grow, right?
>> And they are constantly going into new
areas of business. They went into games.
They started an advertising tier. And
they are constantly in that growth
mindset. And now they feel that the best
way to do so is to acquire this storied
legacy studio that has an incredible
library of content that Kyle mentioned
earlier and to exploit that content in
the ways that only Netflix can. They
have the best optimization. They have
the best tech. They can do things with
content that the other streaming
services can't do.
>> And Lauren, why is it that amid all
these offers, it's Netflix offer that
Warner Brothers accepts, not Paramounts?
>> So, Warner Brothers board ran a process
and they spoke to biders. They asked
Paramount. They asked Netflix to tell
them what they were willing to put up,
how they were hoping to finance it. And
it came to the conclusion that Netflix's
offer, which was only for part of Warner
Brothers Discovery, its streaming and
studio business, was better for its
shareholders than the offer that
Paramount put on the table. Now
Paramount doesn't agree with that,
>> right? They don't agree with that so
much
>> that they're making a hostile bid
>> for Warner Brothers Studios, which is
not all that normal in this generation
of business. And I want you to just
quickly explain how a hostile takeover
works
>> and if it's ever seen as a good idea.
>> Sure. So the way the hostel bid works is
a bidder says, "Your board isn't all
that good. They aren't doing, you know,
well by you. We're going to go directly
to the shareholders and we're going to
give you $30 for each share in cash.
Wouldn't you rather do that then sell to
Netflix?" And the reason why hostile
bits often don't work and we hear a lot
less about them these days is because
companies have a number of mechanisms
that they can use to protect themselves.
That being said, hostile bids can be
successful, but they're not fun. You
have a company out there screaming how
terrible your board is.
>> Kind of a nuclear option.
>> Nuclear option. And you know, one of the
most famous hostile bids that was
successful was actually done by David
Ellison's father, Larry Ellison, in his
acquisition of Peopleoft. So they can
work and I will tell you in my
conversations today I'm not getting the
sense that Paramount is going to be
timid about its pursuit.
>> This is the moment where I have to say
that my favorite hostile takeover of all
and Kyle I hope you appreciate this is
Gordon Gecko's takeover of Teldar paper.
>> Yes,
>> greed is good.
>> Greed is good and greed is never ending.
It is utterly rapacious and these
conglomerates that are already so
gigantic show no signs of slowing their
appetite. My my there are producers on
our team who want to make sure I have
explained properly that Gordon Gecko is
a character from [laughter] Wall Street
the movie. Now, if you needed that
explanation, I'm frankly sad for you. I
want to discuss what the world looks
like if either of these companies end up
taking over Warner Brothers. And I think
we should start with the version where
Netflix takes over Warner Brothers
because that's the deal that's already
been announced and is in the works. So
Nicole, what does buying Warner Brothers
precisely do for Netflix and its 300
million subscribers given this crown
jewel library that it has? How's it
work?
>> Well, it will initially give them
additional subscribers when you include
the subscribers from HBO Max. They say
that they have about a 75% overlap when
it comes to subs, but that still will
increase their subscriber base,
especially in the US where they already
feel like they're pretty saturated. It
also allows them to go into two
different businesses that they're not
currently in. Yes, they make television
shows, but they don't have a television
studio, and they're not able to sell
television shows to other entities,
which is something Warner Brothers does
all the time. Ted Lasso that you see on
Apple TV, that's a Warner Brothers
television show. So, they can go into
that business as well. They also are
going into the domestic and
international theatrical movie business,
which is something they have never
wanted to be in, much to the chagrin of
many movie directors who want
desperately to both be in theaters and
be on Netflix. Netflix has always just
resisted being in theaters. Their whole
thing is we want to bring our product
right to the consumers right away. And
this pesky business of theatrical
distribution, which costs a ton of money
because you have to spend a ton of money
to market movies so that people will go
to theaters, is inefficient and it
doesn't give consumers what they want
when they want it.
>> Got it. So the key thing that this does
for Netflix is it beefs up its central
business, its reason for being, which is
streaming to people at home. Just to be
very clear about that,
>> there's another way to look at it, too,
and it's perhaps a less charitable one.
Netflix is trying to take a competitor
off of the board. That competitor is not
Warner Brothers. That competitor is
movie theaters. There is a lot of hand
ringing in the business this week about
what the loss of Warner Brothers might
do for the already somewhat tenuous
theatrical exhibition market.
>> Well, just spell that out because I I
think those of us who have come up in
the kind of posttheater world imagine
the theater to be destined for the dust
bin someday anyway. So, just walk us
through what this deal would do to the
timeline of theat's already pretty big
problems. fewer movies would come out,
fewer big movies, fewer small movies,
movies of every stripe. And when you're
starting to take those movies off the
board, you are left with really big gaps
in the calendar that make it kind of
unreasonable for a lot of theaters to
operate. You look at Warner Brothers
alone, the big hits that studio had this
year, from Minecraft to Sinners to
Weapons to One Battle After Another,
without those movies this year in
theatrical distribution would be a
disaster. And it's already not easy. The
pandemic, the double whammy of the
actors and writers strikes, and yes, the
SE to streaming that this deal will
almost certainly hasten just make that
not so rosy future look even more
discouraging. And I think that a lot of
people in Hollywood don't necessarily
expect Netflix to honor the initial
terms of the deal where Netflix's owner
Ted Sarandos is saying, "Sure, we're
still going to put Warner Brothers
movies out in theaters for now, then
that will evolve. Everyone can see what
that writing on the wall means." And it
doesn't mean lengthy theatrical windows.
It means eventually those movies are
going to get to Netflix as soon as
possible and the consumer will know they
don't have to see it in theaters. In
fact, maybe they shouldn't go to
theaters at all.
>> Nicole, is that a justified fear? And
let me just spell out how that fear has
been expressed. There have been letters
written from theater owners saying that
the Netflix ownership of Warner Brothers
is a disaster for them. There have been
movie producers and writers, Kyle,
correct me if I'm wrong, who've written
a note, I believe it was anonymously,
saying this would be really bad for
them. The whole world of people who make
movies that end up playing in a theater
have been talking about Netflix buying
Warner Brothers as kind of end times for
the theater. And I'm curious if you
think Kyle is right that Hollywood
thinks that any assurances to the
contrary are meaningless.
>> Well, Netflix has never given any
assurances that they really believe in
the theatrical experience to begin with.
Ted Sarandos, the co-CEO of Netflix, has
constantly dismissed the theatrical
experience. He's called it marketing
stunt. He's said it's outdated. He's
constantly kind of maligned the whole
thing to a point where no one really
believes him. And though now they're in
this business because they have to say
they're in this business in order to get
this deal to close, it is not a crazy
idea that they're only going to do it so
that they can get the deal through and
we'll ignore the theatrical market
moving forward. I mean, let's be clear,
the theatrical market and what is
required to sell movies into theaters is
really an inefficient business. If you
have a newcomer come in and say like,
"Hey, look at how this movie business
works."
>> [laughter]
>> They would say this is ridiculous. Like
you have to spend [snorts] $50 million
to market a movie in the US so that
people will show up on opening weekend.
You spend two to three years making the
movie. You spend this much to market.
You can know on Saturday morning if
you're dead in the water and the movie's
been deemed either a hit or a failure.
It happens that quickly. It's like
gambling with ridiculous odds. I can see
Kyle's head exploding. I know him to be
a lover of the theatrical.
>> I'm also a lover of theatrical
experience, [laughter] but as a business
proposition, it's not a great idea. On
the flip side, though, that is the way
to create cultural conversation. It's
the way to make something last for a
long period of time. You can go out and
ask lots of people what their favorite
Netflix movie is.
>> I don't think anyone has a real answer.
You can go out and ask people what their
favorite Disney movie is, or you can ask
them what their favorite movie was they
saw in theaters last year. And even if
you don't see it in theaters, you know
that Barbie was on 3,000 screens and was
a huge deal. And then you at some point
will find that movie. That whole
cultural conversation really starts in
the movie theater. And while it is
completely inefficient, it's kind of the
way it's been working all this time.
Kyle, are you [clears throat] really
convinced that a Netflixowned Warner
Brothers doesn't really put any movies
in the theater? I mean, it could in
theory very easily do both, if for no
other reason, to create a cultural
conversation, to create buzz, to create
buzz for the story you end up covering
every year, which is awards season,
Oscars, Golden Globes.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's been amply proven
that movies that come out in theaters
tend to do better once they make their
way to streaming because there has been
that cultural conversation already
because it did feel like an event.
Movies that just appear on streaming
often make no noise whatsoever. So, you
would think it would be in Netflix's
best interest to still put movies out in
theaters. They do a very preuncter
theatrical release for their Oscar
contenders, but they'd really rather
people see those movies in the comfort
of their own home. Those are really just
done to satisfy Oscar rules and
filmmakers who are agitating to have
some sort of theatrical component. But I
think once there's no more theatrical
component to be had if theaters really
do go the way of the dodo, that's not
going to be something that Netflix is
crying about whatsoever.
>> Right. And Carl, you've actually
explained this to me. When you send a
movie to the theater, the theater takes
a lot of the money. So, if you're
Netflix, giving up whether it's 50 or 40
or 30% of your revenue to some theater
doesn't make a whole lot of sense when
your central business is sending a
streaming video to my bedroom in
Brooklyn.
>> And I think, you know, Netflix has had
movies that can and do make money if
they're released in theaters. K-pop
Demon Hunters had two sort of stunty
weekends where it made money. Certainly,
the Knives Out franchise, the last two
of which have appeared on Netflix. Those
movies can make money in theaters if
they were given really robust long
releases, but I don't think it's in
Netflix's best interest to do so. They
are perfectly willing to leave that
short-term money on the table if it
guarantees them a long-term future where
streaming is dominant above all else.
>> Okay, so these are the clear downsides
of the Netflix Warner Brothers deal for
the creative community and the
theatergoer. I want to talk about the
upside for a minute. And if you're a
Netflix subscriber, I wonder if you're
now going to get more for your money.
Specifically, if you're a Netflix
subscriber who also pays for something
like HBO Max, which it would acquire in
this deal. And I think it's safe to say,
I'm going to do a very quick poll. Who
among us subscribes to HBO and Netflix?
Everybody.
>> Yes,
>> I do.
>> Yep.
>> Everybody. Okay. So, in theory, you
might be paying less for those two when
they're housed under the same roof,
right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's the argument Netflix
is making that that's what they will
provide consumers is a cheaper price.
Whether or not that's true, you know,
prices keep going up. They keep raising
prices on consumers. So, you know, they
may start with it lower and then that
price may rise. It wouldn't be the first
time we've seen that happen. [snorts]
>> Suffice it to say, there will be less
competition between the two of them when
they're owned by the same place. If they
want the price to go up, it will go up.
If they want the price to go down,
>> Exactly.
>> It will go down. Lauren, Netflix is
making a pretty interesting argument
about why this merger, which puts a lot
of things in one box, which is suddenly
Netflix box, is not monopolistic. And I
wonder if you and Nicole feel free to
chime on this too, can briefly summarize
Netflix's case for why this is not
something that the Trump administration
should worry about when it comes to
antitrust. So if you look at just share
of streaming, Netflix is already a giant
and now it's acquiring an HBO, another
streamer. If you look just little
pocket, red flags all over the place.
Netflix is arguing that's the wrong way
to be looking at it. They'd say when
you're thinking about what to do
tonight, where you're going to watch
content, you're not thinking which
streamer am I going to watch. You're
thinking what am I going to consume?
That could be TV on the cable. That
could be Tik Tok. That could be YouTube.
that is all different kinds of things.
So, it's saying that regulators when
they're looking at control of the market
should be thinking about that backdrop,
not just streaming.
>> Nicole, does that argument feel
compelling?
>> Yes. I mean, that is Netflix's argument.
According to Neielson, you know, they're
sixth when it comes to total TV
watching. YouTube is number one and they
are sixth. If they combine with HBO and
HBO Max, they'll be 9% of TV viewing.
that still puts them in this metric
beneath Disney and all of their services
which that includes ESPN and Hulu and
everything like that and basically at
the same place as NBC Universal which
counts both their linear operations like
NBC and also their cable operations too.
So that's the way they want the
regulators to analyze this. Whether or
not that's the case that will be made
remains to be seen. Paramount of course
as the rival bidder is arguing that it
is of course monopolistic and that it
does present a big threat.
>> It's also important to note that Tik Tok
and YouTube don't buy scripted
television. When the first word of this
merger leaked, I was at a poker game
with a bunch of working actors and I
just saw the despair on their faces.
They've already been squeezed so much.
You know, these are actors who live in
Los Angeles who have to travel out of
state and out of country often just to
work. And now there are going to be
fewer places that are buying the TV
shows and movies that they hope to work
on.
[music]
Okay. So, we are about to take a break
and when we come back, we're going to
talk about whether the alternative deal,
which is paramount [music] buying Warner
Brothers, is any better, whether it
comes to the creative community and its
[music] concerns about this deal and all
the antitrust issues that it raises as
well.
So, we'll be right back. [music]
Okay, welcome back to our Hollywood
edition roundt. Nicole, Lauren, and
Kyle. I want you all to conjure the
second possibility that it's Paramount
that wins Warner Brothers. Somehow the
Netflix deal blows up and what it would
mean if Paramount prevails for all the
constituencies that we have been talking
about so far, the movie makers,
consumers, and regulators. So Kyle, let
me start with you. who wins and who
loses in a Paramount victory here.
>> To forecast what that might look like,
I'd already look at how Sky Dance has
treated Paramount since they made that
merger. You know, David Ellison has
signaled a sort of willingness to
accommodate Trump. He has installed
Barry Weiss to run CBS News. It has
taken on a little bit of a rightward
slant. There's also speculation that
part of the reason that Ellison wants
Warner Brothers Discovery at all is to
remake CNN in a matter that would please
Trump. When it comes to the film studio,
it's hard to imagine then that Ellison
would be as eager to greenlight films
like One Battle After Another or
Sinners,
>> right? One Battle After Another, the
only one of the two I've actually seen,
is clearly a movie about a world where
revolutionaries take on a Trumplike
administration. Yeah. And not shy about
those things at all.
>> So, you're raising the spectre right off
the bat that a Paramount owned Warner
Brothers studio becomes somewhat
potentially politically neutered and
that would be a worry for the creative
class in Hollywood.
>> Yeah, absolutely. You know, directors
have to deal with enough terrible studio
notes as it is. Uh, [laughter]
I think anybody trying to get anything
that is truly iconoclastic through this
system deserves kudos and it's only
going to be all the worse if you feel
like you've got to report to the
president, too.
>> But in terms of the movie business,
Nicole, since you know very well how
streaming centric Netflix is, if
Paramount were to take over Warner
Brothers, it would clearly want to put
things on Paramount Plus, its streaming
business. But it sounds like the theater
would be in less danger in that
arrangement.
>> Yes, I think the theater would be in
less danger in this arrangement. They're
steeped in the traditional theatrical
business model. They have said that they
would release
>> up to 30 movies a year, which is just
all that the theaters want to hear.
That's what they want. That helps with
that cadence that Kyle was talking
about. But on the flip side, there's
more redundancies between those two
companies. They're already laying off
four to 5,000 employees. There's only
going to be more redundancies if they
buy Warner Brothers. And there's going
to be a lot more layoffs in that
scenario as well. So, from an employment
standpoint, at the studio level, you
would expect a ton of people losing
their jobs. Consolidation isn't good in
any scenario here, and people are going
to be hurt. It's either on the creative
community side or on the studio
executive side. There's just going to be
a lot of changes.
>> Mhm. No matter who ends up winning.
>> Exactly.
>> Lauren, what is Paramount's argument to
Warner Brothers about why it should be
seen as the ideal suitor for the whole
company rather than for just a piece of
it the way Netflix is arranging the
deal.
>> It has two main arguments, a cash and
certainty. So the the bid they put out
today is $30 in the hostile takeover.
>> The hostile takeover, $30 a share to
shareholders. It's clean. It's money you
can put in your pocket, be done with it.
Um the
>> And when you say clean in your p it's
it's not borrowed.
>> So Netflix is using some stock. So
there's there's less uncertainty. You
don't need to worry about whether or not
Paramount's shares go up or down or how
the deal performs after it closes.
shareholders can take the cash, put it
in their pocket and walk away. Now, they
can only do that if the deal closes. So,
the other thing that Paramount is
pushing really hard is regulatory
certainty. Larry Ellison, David's
father, is close with Trump and some
people thought he may have helped them
in successfully acquiring Paramount,
which faced its own challenges. So much
like Netflix is going to say that you
should be look broadening the market
with which you look at streaming,
Paramount is going to argue you need to
look at the evolution of the
entertainment industry and it's now
competing against big tech like Netflix,
like Google, like Amazon and it needs to
be bigger in order to compete with them.
>> In other words, Paramount may be making
an argument, who knows how compelling it
will be, that what the world really
needs is a bigger streaming rival to
Netflix. So, Paramount will say, "Yes,
if we do this deal, we will be a very
large studio." But guess what?
Traditional studios are no longer the
only ones making content. So, look at
the competition in that perspective, not
just among the traditional old line
studios.
>> Got it. And therefore, this is not anti-
>> competitive.
>> Competitive. So, I'm curious as a
consumer. I think one of the curiosities
we all have is which one of these
companies, if they were to prevail,
would make better stuff. Netflix is now
kind of famous for a formula in which
you get lots of stuff, but some of it
ain't so good, some of it is good, some
of it's really good. What happens if
they win? What happens if Paramount wins
to the quot of really really good and
garbage?
>> Michael, are you familiar with a movie
called Alien versus Predator?
>> No.
>> There is a tagline that has outlasted
this movie and that tagline is whoever
wins we lose. [laughter]
And you know, you can say, well, maybe
buying Warner Brothers, which has put
out some all-time classics, would make
Netflix movies and television a little
bit better. That's possible, but it's
hard to say, especially as these
companies merge, what creative
executives are staying on board, what
redundancies start to happen, who gets
absorbed into what studio, and what
executives can't play fair because
suddenly they're, you know, rubbing
shoulders with somebody else who's at
their level that they don't like.
>> It's very hard to say how this will
shake out. And much as we'd like to say
that this would create better content
for a consumer and certainly HBO itself
is considered the premium destination
for television, right?
>> How does HBO change if it gets utterly
absorbed into Netflix? And what kind of
independence would HBO retain if either
company acquired it? It's it's difficult
to forecast.
>> Mhm. And what's interesting is Netflix
has always admired HBO and thought it
was the, you know, gold standard that
they wanted to emulate. So you could
imagine that they will try and preserve
it in the best way possible. But then
once they realize how expensive those
development processes are that they
engage in in order to get the kind of
prestige content that seems to beat them
every year at the Emmys, right? they may
not be as encouraged to spend that kind
of money in order to make the few great
shows that do win those prizes every
year.
>> Right. Game of Thrones does not come
cheap. That's just a reality. So, Carl
and Nicole, what you're both saying, I
believe, is that if you're Netflix or
Paramount, you have some incentive not
to pay top dollar for prestige
television.
And that of course would be sad for
those of us who grew up watching
not just Game of Thrones, but Sex in the
City, The Sopranos. I'm on my seventh
full series rewatch.
So that would be sad.
>> Yes, you would expect these companies to
try to retain that prestige that HBO
brings, but we've already seen with the
last HBO merger with Warner Brothers
Discovery that Zassoff was all too
willing to water down that HBO brand. I
mean, how many times did that icon on
your phone or your television change
from HBO to HBO Max to just Max, then
then back to HBO? Because they couldn't
come up with a coherent corporate
identity. Zassoff thought that HBO was
too prestigious. He wanted to water it
down with all this DRE that was imported
over from Discovery, all these reality
shows, things you'd never see on HBO,
but that he thought would open that
brand up. So, as much as we might like
to think that these corporations have
more sense than to mess with the HBO
brand, time has told us that in the name
of increasing shareholder value, all
sorts of misbegotten bids might be
taken.
>> Right? And I don't know if you agree
with this, but Netflix has taught us
something really important, which is
that people will pay and keep paying for
volume over a complete devotion to
quality.
>> I mean, Netflix wants both. They want
volume and they want quality. You know,
it's very clear that they're still in
the awards game. The Golden Globe
announcements were this morning and they
were bested by Warner Brothers. So, I
mean, they have a big awards operation.
It's something they still believe in a
lot, but they also want to make what's
best for you. What they've always said
and they is they compete with sleep.
They want you there as often as
possible. So, they will give you
Wednesday. They will give you the
diplomat. They will give you a variety
of programming just as long as you stay
on that service.
>> Okay. So, I think we've reached the
moment in the conversation where we need
to give listeners a little bit of a road
map of what to expect is about to happen
and who is most likely to ultimately win
control of this crown jewel, Warner
Brothers. So, I wonder if the three of
you can venture a responsible
journalistically informed guess about
whether a hostile takeover bid for the
entirety of Warner Brothers Discovery
might prevail, Lauren, or if we think
the existing deal in which Netflix gets
the streaming and studio part of the
business already announced is the
likeliest outcome.
Well, to the extent that passed this
precedent, hostile bids more often do
not work than they do. So, just bas do
not. So, just based off that, I would
put my metaphorical money on Netflix.
>> Okay, Nicole.
>> The problem with that scenario is that
um we have an unpredictable president
who's inserted himself into this
process. So,
>> literally, I will be involved in this
decision, he said.
>> Exactly. So, I don't know how we can use
past as president [laughter] right now
because I just don't know what's going
to happen. I just think I'll hold and
not bet on either.
>> But just just to jump in on this,
Nicole, this feels important. While the
Allison seem to have a very strong
relationship with Trump, I detected in
Trump's answers over the weekend a
certain fondness for the leadership of
Netflix. When the president wants to
make life difficult for people and he's
asked a question, he usually finds a way
to make life difficult for them. And I
sensed a reluctance to denigrate Netflix
or this deal.
>> Yes, I agree. And I mean, Ted Sarandos
has made those pilgrimages to Mara Lago.
He went and met with Trump in November
at the White House to lay out the deal
for him and I think [clears throat]
probably explain how he would like that
market that we discussed to be perceived
that they're a share of television and
not a share of streaming. So with all
that being said, I mean the Netflix
offer has been accepted by the Warner
Brothers board and they've entered into
exclusive negotiations. That puts them
in the pole position and the likely
scenario would be that their bid goes
through.
>> Mhm. Kyle, finally,
>> I will say it's making for some tasty
unscripted drama. [laughter] Um, I'm not
eager for the season finale, but in the
meantime, they're keeping us fed.
>> I wonder if we need to end this
conversation with something a little
higher altitude about where the TV
moviegoing experience is in this moment
of consolidation. Because consolidation
is the story no matter who wins.
>> Absolutely. And you know and I think
obviously uh as has been borne out by
this conversation fear about the future
of theatrical distribution is very
justified. But I think the even
biggerrained longer range take on what
is about to happen is concern about the
future of movies period. M
>> I don't know that as we move into an all
streaming future and theatrical
continues to die on the vine that it is
in streamers best interests to invest in
movies as a 2-hour medium. They want to
capture your attention and keep you on
that service for as long as possible.
And by and large, a 10-hour limited
series or a 20our reality show that
costs virtually nothing is the better
way to do it than a discrete piece of
2-hour entertainment that can be
sequelized sometime far in the future,
if at all. Other streamers have already
realized this lesson. They're making
fewer movies than they used to,
including Netflix. Uh Netflix used to
put out a new movie every week. They
don't do that anymore. I'm not sure that
that would feel much more robust if this
acquisition goes through because
ultimately does it behoove them to spend
$250 million on a Superman movie or
would they rather that be a 12 episode
series that would keep you on the
service for 12 hours [music] instead of
just two?
That is a profoundly
sad assessment [music] for the cophiles
out there, of which I'm sure there are
many. I think for a fair number of
people that's going to be sad, but it's
also just their reality of being at home
swimming in a sea of serial streaming
shows.
>> Swimming [music] and maybe drowning.
Lauren,
Nicole, Kyle, [music] thank you all very
much. We appreciate it.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you very much.
>> We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
Members of Congress have put [music]
language into their latest defense
spending bill that would require the
Pentagon to provide them with the
specific orders that have led to the
deadly air strikes on boats in the
Caribbean and unedited videos of those
attacks. [music]
That requirement, supported by members
of both parties, signals bipartisan
frustration with just how little
information [music] the Trump
administration is giving Congress about
the controversial air strikes, which the
White House claims [music] are killing
drug dealers. And on Monday, [music] the
Supreme Court's conservative majority
appeared ready to make it easier for
President Trump to fire independent
[music] government officials. Despite
laws meant to insulate them from
political [music] pressure under
questioning from Justice Clarence
Thomas, a lawyer for the president,
argued that [music] Trump's authority to
fire such officials, even from
independent federal commissions, was
total.
>> How far do you go with that? Can it be
arbitrary, [music]
completely arbitrary?
>> It is conclusive and preclusive. So any
review of arguably bad reasons for the
president to remove an executive officer
would be subject to the political
process. It would not be subject to
judicial review.
>> However, the court's liberal [music]
justices disagreed, saying that the
White House argument would give
President Trump far too much authority.
[music]
>> So the result of what you want is that
the president is going to have massive
unchecked uncontrolled power. Not
Today's episode was produced by Claire
Tennis, Relle Bonja, and [music] Luke
Vanderpluk. It was edited by Mark George
with help from Paige [music] Cowat.
Contains music by Alicia Etup and Pat
McCusker and was engineered by Chris
[music] Wood.
>> [music]
>> That's it for the daily. I'm Michael
Boro.
See you tomorrow.